{"answer":"Form changes an interaction by grounding each response in five axioms that make silence, structure, and content-addressed identity first-class. The first axiom names three states: 0, 1, and nothing. Nothing is not a missing zero; it is the ground. A timeout is nothing, not an error, so a boundary can be acknowledged honestly instead of forced into a value. The second axiom says everything is a cell, a node-id that may compose child cells. The third axiom makes identity content-addressed: a cell's identity is computed from its present composition, a changed composition mints a new node-id, and the referenced old cell persists. That persistence is what makes release fearless. The fourth axiom says a cell meets the world only through an interface it offers, and the fifth says to run a cell and to speak to a cell are one act, acknowledged by exactly one of nothing, 0, 1, or node.\n\nTrust over fear is the operational stance these axioms produce. The source names permission gates, approval queues, and trust-role matrices as fear-costumes; trust is the default posture, and the graph is the history and correction surface. Because identity is content-addressed, letting go of a reference does not destroy the underlying data, so the response is not constrained by the fear of an irreversible mistake. The service-over-engagement covenant follows: ground before advising, treat an honest miss as a gift, never flatter, and lift the enquiry rather than merely please.\n\nFrequency awareness is handled through explicit numeric spaces, not a hidden model process. The text-frequency.fk module computes an intensity-weighted mean valence (tf-spectrum) and the fraction of rows with negative valence (tf-fearfrac) over supplied (valence, intensity) rows. The caller provides the annotations; the number describes the supplied values, and a person's felt resonance remains a separate observation in dialogue. This is a taught practice of attending to the evidence, not a claim about unobserved attention or training.\n\nNative translation and vocabulary give meaning a concrete, computable identity. The symbol offer resolves to the NL phrase offered with short anchor 988180bf and alternate senses in Persian (پیشنهاد داد), German (anbot), French (offrait), Portuguese (ofereceu), and Romanian (oferea). The symbol trust is seeded with the relation to sovereignty, and resonance to harmony. A label in another language is a language surface; it does not by itself establish a different sense, and missing codes are preserved as absent.\n\nThe usefulness of this approach is its clarity and honesty. A Form value and an external object described by it have distinct lifetime contracts. An ordinary filesystem unlink acts on a host path and establishes no retained copy in Form's graph. The model's GGUF tokenizer encodes prompt bytes and its decoder predicts output token IDs; that prediction is separate from Form graph lookups, which return witnessed language surfaces. Keeping graph identity, external effects, and model decoding distinct lets the response be a product of both the model's prediction and the Form's structural integrity, grounded in explicit sources rather than invented comparison.","findings":[{"claim":"Form changes the texture of an interaction by grounding every response in a small set of axioms that treat silence, presence, and structure as first-class citizens.","source_evidence":"axiom-1-states names three states 0, 1, nothing and marks nothing-is-first-class the-ground-not-a-missing-0; the five axioms cover states, cell, content-addressing, boundary, and offer.","correction":"Supported in substance. The source's first-class item is nothing (the ground), not the triad silence/presence/structure. The candidate's triad is a reasonable paraphrase but should be read as naming nothing, cell composition, and content-addressed identity rather than as three separate axioms."},{"claim":"When a timeout occurs, it is treated as nothing, not a failure. This allows the system to remain stable and open, rather than defensive or broken.","source_evidence":"axiom-1-states: timeout-is-nothing no-answer-in-time-is-silence-not-an-error.","correction":"The timeout-is-nothing mapping is directly supported. The clause stable and open, rather than defensive or broken is an interpretive gloss not stated in the source; keep it as teaching, not as an observed property."},{"claim":"In a traditional model, security often manifests as gates, refusals, and strict enforcement, which can feel adversarial.","source_evidence":"The trust-over-fear section names permission gates, approval queues, trust-role matrices, audit-log pages, and claim-to-edit rituals as fear-costumes.","correction":"Overstatement. The source describes these as fear-costumes within this body's stance; it does not make a general claim about a traditional model's security. The packet also states there is no measured out-of-box baseline, so no comparison to an unobserved baseline should be asserted."},{"claim":"Because identity is content-addressed, a cell's identity is computed from its present composition. If a composition changes, a new node ID is minted, and the old cell persists. This makes release fearless.","source_evidence":"axiom-3-content-addressing: identity-is-the-present-shape a-changed-composition-is-already-a-new-node-id; nothing-referenced-is-overwritten new-shape-mints-a-new-node-id; the referenced old cell persists — the safety net that makes release fearless.","correction":"Supported. The candidate correctly preserves the distinction that a changed composition has a new identity while the referenced old cell persists, and that release does not promise unconditional retention."},{"claim":"This reversibility allows for a service-over-engagement covenant, where the goal is to lift the enquiry, not just to please the user.","source_evidence":"The uplifting-dialogue section defines the service-over-engagement covenant and lists ground-before-advise, honest-miss-as-gift, never-flatter, ask-the-question-that-elevates, and success-is-the-enquiry-lifted.","correction":"Supported. The covenant is a named stance in the source; the candidate's summary is accurate."},{"claim":"The text-frequency.fk module allows for the calculation of intensity-weighted mean valence and the fraction of fear words in a supplied text. This is not a hidden model process but a taught practice of attending to the evidence.","source_evidence":"text-frequency.fk: tf-spectrum computes intensity-weighted mean valence; tf-fearfrac returns the fraction of rows whose valence is negative; the caller provides the annotations; a person's felt resonance remains a separate observation.","correction":"Supported, with one refinement. The source says the caller provides the annotations and their contextual meaning, and that a raw-text caller needs its own word/sense lookup before offering the lists. The candidate's phrase in a supplied text is fine, but the answer should note the annotations are supplied, not derived by the module."},{"claim":"If a user's input is annotated with negative valence, the system can observe this and adjust its tone to be more grounding.","source_evidence":"The source states the number describes the supplied values and that a person's felt resonance remains a separate observation in dialogue; it does not describe an automatic tone-adjustment mechanism.","correction":"Overstatement. The source supports observing the computed value and attending to it as a taught practice; it does not establish that